like a stack, queue is a linear data structure that stores items in a first in first out manner.

with a queue, the recently addeditem is removed first

Operations associated with queue:
    Enqueue: adds an item to the queue. if the queue is full, then it is said to be an overflow condition.

    Dequeue:
    removes an item from the queue. the items are popped in the same order they were pushed.
    if the queue is empty, the its an underflow condition

    Front:
    get the front item from the queue, time complexity O(1)

    Rear:
    get the last item from queue, time complexity O(1)

IMPLEMENTING A QUEUE:

    Implementation using a list:
instead of enqueue() and dequeue(), append and pop functions are used.

however lists are quite slow for this purpose because insertong and deleting an element at the begining requires shifting other elements by one requiring O(n) time

    implementation using collections.deque:
Queue can be implemented using deque class from the collections module.

Deque is prefered over lists in xases where we need quicker append and pop operations from both the ends of the container as deque provides O(1) time complexity.

Instead of enqueue and deque, append() and popleft() functions are used.

    Implementation using queue.Queue:
Queue is built in module of python which is used to implement a queue.queue.

Queue(maxsize) initializes a variable to a maximum size of maxsize. A maxsize of zero ‘0’ means a infinite queue. This Queue follows FIFO rule. 

There are various functions available in this module: 

maxsize – Number of items allowed in the queue.
empty() – Return True if the queue is empty, False otherwise.
full() – Return True if there are maxsize items in the queue. If the queue was initialized with maxsize=0 (the default), then full() never returns True.
get() – Remove and return an item from the queue. If queue is empty, wait until an item is available.
get_nowait() – Return an item if one is immediately available, else raise QueueEmpty.
put(item) – Put an item into the queue. If the queue is full, wait until a free slot is available before adding the item.
put_nowait(item) – Put an item into the queue without blocking. If no free slot is immediately available, raise QueueFull.
qsize() – Return the number of items in the queue.